---
layout: post
title:  "My Very First Sinatra App"
date:   2017-06-14 19:57:58 +0000
---

I recently wrote that I like reading technology news and that I like coding.  I have another thing that I really like, and this 'thing' is numbers.  Anything related to numbers greatly interests me.  It could be math (I took couple 400 level math classes while getting my college degree), or it could be making a list of how much I spent on a given month.  Not only that, I really like doing puzzles that involve numbers such as sudoku, nonograms, and many other number related logics and puzzles.  Okay, so you know now that I really like numbers.  You must be wondering what my interest in numbers has to do with my very first Sinatra app?  Please allow me to explain!

While I was pondering about what app to make, I realized that I could make a very simple app that uses numbers.  This app is a hybrid of an editable log and a bank account.  We all know that bank accounts are super secure, and it has tons of features.  Well, if you are wondering if my app can act like a bank account, then no, it can't do that.  It just is a simplified and an extremely lightweight app that stores a list of accounts by name and balance.  It also uses ActiveRecord to store user data and accounts data.  A user can create an account by name and give it a valid balance (n non-number values like 7erer.233k or a negative number like -34), and some time down the road, a user can update the balance and maybe even give it a different name.  In addition, if a user decides that he or she does not need a list anymore, it can be deleted effortlessly.  Don't worry though, it will ask for confirmation, just in case you hit delete by accident!  

What good are accounts without some level of security, right?  I surely would not want some random person to have access to my accounts!  A user must be logged into to access anything other than the `/` , `/signup` and `/login` pages.  Furthermore, no user can view, edit, or delete other user's accounts.  If one tries to access another person's accounts, he or she will be redirect to his or her own `/accounts` page with a friendly reminder that he or she does not have access to that account.   Oh, and don't worry, the user passwords are encrypted, so your accounts are safe.  

I’ve learned a great deal from making this app. Once again, setting up the environment and doing the project initialization took me much longer than expected. This time the reason was not that I was trying to turn it into a gem, but rather, there are a lot of parts working together to just run a Sinatra app, and I simply did not have everything memorized.  A lot of people say that one of the best ways to learn how to program is to build apps and programs, and I can honestly say that I've learn so much from making this app!  Because I'm excited to learn more, I'm off to learn more now!
